Welcome back guys.
In this lesson I'm going to take a deeper dive into writing methods on classes because right now is
actually a good opportunity for us to explore a very fundamental thing in not only javascript but also
in react.
And that's the idea of writing our own methods on our class components now.
Right now we pass in this anonymous function into our search boxes handle change in order to set our
state.
And we know that we've seen the this keyword a couple of times now.
What is it actually representing.
Well this is a special keyword in javascript that references the context in which it's being invoked.
So what does that mean.
Well when I say this dot states we know that I'm trying to reference the state on r component right.
Class component.
The only reason that JavaScript is able to say oh When we're calling this dot state I want the state
object on our component is because the this keyword is set to the context of our class component.
Now the weird thing is that in JavaScript when we write our own class methods we'll see that the this
keyword actually gets bound differently depending on how we write the class method.
Now we've already seen class methods in our app component when we look at say the component did mount
which is a lifecycle method as well as the render an inside of these methods.
They take this format where it's the function name the brackets and then the squiggly brackets.
But the this keyword is bound.
Now the reason that this is actually happening where the this context is getting bound inside of these
methods is because when we call super we're actually extending the functionality that exists on component
which we get from react that has these lifecycle methods and render because we didn't write them were
like borrowing them from component.
And when we borrow them from component component actually sets the context of this inside of them for
us to our class components if we were to write our own method for example to represent this method that
we're passing in we would have to be careful about how we write it.
Now let me show you now the reason in the first place we even want to rewrite this method in its own
class method is because there's a chance that we might want to use it more than one place and we'd want
to write code more than once which is not to put it in one place pass it in and then change it in one
place.
If we have to and not have to change it in multiple places.
Now how we would do this is we would write this handle change method here.
Right.
Taking the same format that we see and it would take some event.
Which is the synthetic event we're getting back from our input as you remember and then we call this
dot set stay in it.
And now we're able to actually pass handle change into ah handle change property on our search box.
Now we can write it like this because we're passing the whole callback through to it right.
E is being referenced in the function definition.
So we even though earlier we were explicitly writing it out like this.
This is the same equivalent thing because this door handle change is referencing this full function
with the E signature but if we were to save this we'll actually see that our original conversation which
is about this context is undefined if we start typing.
We'll see that we get an error.
It says that cannot read properties set state of undefined and it seems that this is undefined.
Well why is this.
Well this is actually has to do with the way the functions behave in JavaScript when we put handle change
on our app all it knows is that if we say this dot handle change inside the context of our app it points
to this function but it doesn't actually set the context of this.
The reason for this is because javascript by default doesn't set its scope of this on functions.
You have to actually explicitly state what context you want this to be for us.
We want this to be our app component and the method in which we can do it is to define it in our constructor
because our constructor is the code that runs first before anything gets called right.
So we want to make sure that the context of this is correct in all of our methods before any code gets
written.
So what we could do is we could say this dot handle change is equal to this done handle change dot bind
and then this.
Now what is dot bind what dot bind is a method on any function that returns a new function where the
context of this is set to whatever we passed to it and the context of this that we're setting in handle
change right here is the this keyword that is defined inside of our constructor which knows that it's
our component and now if we save we'll actually see that it will work as it was before
this is actually a very verbose way of writing code because that means that for every new class method
that we write we have to bind it.
We don't want to have to do that.
We can actually leverage yes six arrow functions and a unique characteristic about them that allows
them to set the context of this in whatever it was that declared it in the first place.
So what do I mean.
While arrow functions automatically allow you to set this when this thing is defined.
So when our component is getting run by javascript for the first time and it's like oh I got to instantiate
this new app class it checks inside and it sees that there's this handle change method that points to
an arrow function.
So then it defines the arrow function based on what code we've given it right.
And the moment it sees the this keyword it's like oh this is an arrow function I'm going to automatically
bind this to the place where this arrow function was defined in the first place and the context of this
arrow function is r app component so that's the crazy thing about Arrow functions is that you actually
cannot call dot bind on them they automatically get what's called lexical scoping which just means that
they bind this context to the place where they were defined in the first place and we can actually see
this now that it will continue to work as it did before right.
Even though we're not calling the bind in the constructor anymore so this is really handy for us because
it saves us that extra step.
In order for me to prove that this is lexical scoping another way I can show you is inside of our browser
the tightest level context is our window object.
If I were to define a function called New func and what we're logging is console dot log this.
When we invoke new func we'll see that this is that window object when javascript saw us define new
func to this function and brought it into existence within our javascript context so we could start
using it.
It had to lack sickly scope.
This to the window object because the window object was the context in which our new function our arrow
function was given its existence.
This is the same case with our handle change method when handle change was declared.
Which means that when javascript first created our app component it also defined all of the methods
on our components including handle change and it saw that this was an arrow function and because of
this when this arrow function came into existence to JavaScript it was going to bind any references
to this inside of it to the context in which it was defined which is our app component just like we
saw with our my func in the browser.
That's what happened with our handle change and this is great because if we want to write class methods
we just write them with this arrow syntax and now the context of this is what we expected to be without
us having to write all of that extensive binding code.
If we were to write it the other way so with this in mind it makes it easier for us to write our class
components and their methods.